The following words aggravate, aggravating, aggravation, aggression, aggressive, aggressiveness, aggressor, aggrieve, aggrieved, aggrivation all start with "agg" and represent negative words.

Nevertheless, Manchester United is facing one of the worst times ever. The management is terrifying, their game is just aughfull and whoever wrote this article surely feels miserable.
Also, this article is pretty bad to hopeless worst once again. 

United are a work in progress, and Wayne Rooney in midfield is wrong

MANCHESTER, England -- Three thoughts on Manchester United's 3-1 win over Leicester to move up to third in the Premier League.

Odd and unconventional, but United winning again

They rarely look comfortable, they are certainly not orthodox, but Manchester United have a habit of winning games regardless. With a formation that defied numerical description and with several players out of position, Louis van Gaal's team comfortably defeated Leicester City at Old Trafford.

Demons were exorcised here. A 3-1 win against Leicester was supposed to be the result that galvanised their season back in September. But on that extraordinary day, the Foxes came back and won 5-3. There was no dramatic comeback this time. Three first-half goals provided a cushion and even Marcin Wasilewski's late consolation goal failed to precipitate any late drama.

This has been such an odd season that the Foxes, bottom of the table, were actually the form side in the build-up. With four wins from their last six games in all competitions, there was a feeling that they had ridden out their awful winter form and were well on their way to recovery. United, by contrast, had won just two of their past six games, their last fixture being a grim 0-0 draw with lowly Cambridge. Leicester manager Nigel Pearson fancied his chances and didn't deviate from his standard plan: an old fashioned 4-4-2. In retrospect, this was a mistake.

United's supporters have begged Van Gaal to be equally devoted to 4-4-2. But while he dumped his unpopular back three for this encounter, this was by no means a conventional formation. Daley Blind sat in front of a back four, Adnan Januzaj, Wayne Rooney and Angel Di Maria roamed around in front of him, trying not to get in the way of Robin van Persie. The Dutchman was tasked to roam behind Radamel Falcao, who had the freedom to drift wide, usually into the path of the roaming full-backs. Roaming, you see, was very much the order of the day. But if there were times when United's players didn't seem to know where they should be, the Leicester players had even less of an idea. A slow start, dominated by United possession, soon gave way to an avalanche of goals.

Van Persie, one of the most profound disappointments of the season, opened the scoring on 27 minutes, volleying home a splendid lofted pass from Blind. He then turned provider, teeing up Di Maria's shot four minutes later, which was fumbled by Mark Schwarzer and bundled home by Falcao. On the stroke of halftime, poor Wes Morgan headed past his own goalkeeper after Blind knocked down a Rooney corner.

Leicester had little option after that, save for removing the wretched Jamie Vardy and throwing on Esteban Cambiasso to try to regain control of the central areas. The gate was now firmly bolted. The horse, sadly, was galloping into the horizon and whinnying happily. United's challenge for Champions League football continues.
